We're nearing the end but I won't leave this module without touching on one very important and very
useful concept or feature that is also supported by the Angular HttpClient
and that would be interceptors.
Now what our interceptors?
We're sending our HTTP requests here and whenever we want to configure something like search params,
we're doing this on a per request basis
and oftentimes, this is the way it should be because every request might need different headers.
But let's imagine we want to attach this custom header to all our outgoing requests and a more realistic
scenario would be that you want to authenticate your user and you need to add a certain param or a certain
header to every outgoing request therefore
so that the back-end can read that, you don't want to manually configure every request because that is
very cumbersome and for that, you can add interceptors.
Now how do interceptors work though? Let's create a new interceptor by adding a new file and I will
name this the auth interceptor because I kind of want to simulate that we there attach some header to every
request that is required for authentication on our back-end.
Of course, we're not really using authorization here but that's just an example.
So here, I will add a file and I'll name it auth-interceptor.ts or auth-interceptor.service
because it actually is basically an Angular service
and in there, you create such an interceptor by exporting a class and you give that a name which probably
should be auth interceptor service,
you can name it however you want but I will keep that general file naming convention which we also used
in the rest of the course and this will implement a certain interface and that is the HttpInterceptor
interface, which you need to import from @angular/common/http.
Now this interface forces us to add a intercept method and that intercept method here will actually
get two arguments and that will get that automatically by Angular when it applies our interceptor and
I'll show you how to apply it in just a second.
So here, we get two arguments and the first one is a request object, which is of type HTTP request
which you need to import from @angular/common/http as well.
This is a generic type, a generic object, so you can use the angled brackets to basically inform Angular
about the kind of data this request will yield
and I want to write a generic interceptor here, so I will use any because this will work for any data
that might be retrieved by a request and you have a second argument which is passed to intercept and
that is typically called next,
you could of course rename these arguments but the first one is a request object,
so req makes sense and this is a function which will forward the request because the interceptor will
basically run code before your request leaves your app, so before it really is sent and right before the
response is forwarded to subscribe,
so it steps into that request flow and next is a function you need to call to let the request continue
its journey but more on that in a second too.
Next is of type HttpHandler which also needs to be imported from @angular/common/http.
Now this intercept method now allows us to run code, that as I just mentioned, will run right before
the request leaves our application.
So for example here, we could for now just log request is on its way and thereafter we should return
the result that next yields us. Next
as I mentioned is a function or actually an object but an object with an important method that will
allow us to let the request continue its journey, to be precise
that's the handle method which you have to call to which you should pass that request object and by
calling this, you let the request continue and you should actually return the result to really let it
continue.
So that is the setup you need to use to have some code that is run right before the request leaves the
app and to still let the request leave the app.
If you don't return next handle and pass the request, then the request will not continue and therefore
your app will basically break,
you definitely have to return this here.
Now with that, we have to provide that service and we have to provide this in a special way.
So let's go to the app module and in there, add a new element to the providers array and that should
be a Javascript object now and not the name of that service where you have three keys -
the first key is the provide key and there, you have to use HTTP_INTERCEPTORS, all capital cases,
that is a type that is imported from @angular/common/http. So import that from this package
and use it here as a value for provide.
This is the token by which this injection can later be identified by Angular, so it will basically
know that all the classes you provide on that token,
so by using that identifier, should be treated as HTTP interceptors and should therefore run their
intercept method whenever a request leaves the application.
The second key you pass to that object is the use class key where you now point at your interceptor
class you want to add as an interceptor and here, that would be the auth interceptor service
which you of course also need to import.
And last but not least, you can have more than one interceptor and you inform Angular about that and
that it should not replace the existing interceptors with this one by adding multi and setting this
to true.
So this is just a dependency injection syntax supported by Angular that allows it to register a service
under a different identifier and to have actually multiple services under that identifier, which will
then all be provided and injected. Now Angular will do the rest, it will automatically grab all your
HTTP interceptors and run their intercept method whenever a request leaves the application. And
therefore with this setup, we should now be able to reload and we see request is on its way and if I
click fetch posts, you see it again and if I send a different request, like sending a new post, you see
it too because this code now runs for every request that leaves
the app
and if you want to restrict the requests for which this executes, you have to do that here in the interceptor.
You got that request object in the end and that request object has information like the URL to which
it sent.
So if you know you don't want a send this to a certain URL, then you can use the URL here
in an if check and compare it and so on,
so you can control that all in here in the interceptor.